Hello and welcome in this lecture.
We're going to be looking at what is serialization and why do we need it anyway so serialization is
the process of taking all the state and important data that you've got in your game or in your program
or whatever it is you're doing and turning it into binary just zeros and ones.
And the idea here is that once it's in binary we can send it over the network.
We can save it into a file.
We can do all sorts of things with it and just store it or keep it or transfer it do whatever we need
to do with it.
And then at a later date maybe our application is closed.
Maybe we've even downloaded an update to our application.
So the code is no longer the same.
But if we had agreed on the format with which we transferred our code state in its various objects that
point to one another we'd agreed on the format in which we transfer that into binary bits.
Then we can do a d serialization which goes the other way from the binary bits to convert them back
into C sharp objects and types and references and so on and so forth.
So this why do we need it.
The idea here is that we need to have a way of converting all the state of our game that's important
such as the character's health might be this block here and the plate location in the game might be
this block here.
We need to convert that into binary so that then we can take this binary and put it in a file because
files basically on a file system only contain binary and you just have different ways of reading that.
Now you might say there are text files but that's just a special version of binary.
We'll talk about that later.
But it is a special version of binary that certain text editors all agree on and can read the binary
but it's still binary under the hood.
So let's before we talk about serialization we need to go back a step to something very fundamental
which is how do we count.
Let's sit down children and figure out how we count first we start with zero because we're programmers
and we go 0 1 2 and 3 and so on until we reach 9 at which point we run out of numbers to write with.
We've only got numbers for zero to nine.
How do we carry on writing here.
Well some clever folks over in India developed a system called the now called the Arabic numerals in
fact which is to say hey why don't we just write a number over to the left here.
And you notice it's to the left which might look backwards and I'll explain why in a second.
So if we put this number over here that actually takes on the value of 10 and is one number higher than
nine.
And we put this zero here to mark that we are one place along.
So we use places to denote digits that we don't have which is quite a clever system.
And the idea here is that it's backwards because it's an Arabic numeral and in Arabic you right from
right to left.
So actually it's interesting that we use it in a kind of backwards system because that's where it originated
from.
So then we carry on counting in this place over here in this column we carry on going and we carry on
going until we reach like ninety nine at which point we run it out again in this left hand column.
We run out of digits or run out of characters to write this with and so we resort to adding yet another
column.
Now there's a little bit of a system appearing here because what we've got is that everything in this
column is worth one so it's 1 times 2 it's 1 times 9.
And everything in this column is worth 10.
So it's nine times 10 90 plus 9.
So 90 plus 999.
And obviously this is just seemed obvious to you because we're so used to counting in decimal and hundred
so one times 100 if it was to be 200 and so on and so forth so we've got the hundreds columns the tenth
columns of one's column.
You probably notice this is probably revision for most of you I hope.
Now how about if we did hexadecimal Now what does hexadecimal mean hexane is the Greek word for 16 so
hexadecimal is also hexadecimal is the Greek word for sex 16 and so we're counting in chunks of 16.
Now if we go from zero all the way to nine what do we do now.
Well what we do is we invent a new character in this case in hexadecimal we typically you start using
the alphabet.
So we go A B and so on until we reach F which has the value of 15 again remember nine is not 10.
We've counted decimal but we've only got digits to 9 because 0 counts as well we've got 16 digits here
we've got from 0 to F in count that in your head if you like.
Now what happens next is exactly the same as in the decimal system we go over to 1 0 but I'm being careful
not to say 10 because this is no longer 10.
This is 1 0.
And this actually has the value of 16.
So that's the interesting thing because it's one more than F which was 15 and we carry on along this
path until we get to F F which has a much larger value.
And the next one after F F is 1 0 0.
So how what does one zero zero actually end up equaling.
Well we can think about it.
We've got 16 lots of numbers down here.
Every time we add one on this column we have to have done another 16.
And we can do that up to 16 times because we've got the best first time which is zero essentially in
this column.
And then this f down here which is the 15th 16th time that we've done it.
So it's 16 times 16 times which means that this value here is going to be 16 squared.
So you've got one sixteen and sixteen squared are gonna be our columns and you just do 16 squared multiplied
by one or 16 multiplied by 15 and plus 15 will give you the value in this column here.
So that's what hexadecimal is and how it relates pretty much in exactly the same way it's a binary.
It's a it's accounting system like decimal we that we had now the binary system is super simple it's
the simplest counting system you could come up with.
We start with zero and then we've got the character one as two characters in our binary counting system
and instantly we run out of characters.
So we had to use the next decimal place or the next binary place and we've got 1 0 which now represents
3 and represents 2 Sorry.
And then 1 1 which represents 3.
And then we run out of decimal places again and we have to create a new place.
So following on from before the columns here are two to the zero which is 1 by the way.
2 to the 1 which is 2 and 2 to the 2 which is 4.
So this now gives us the value of 4 because it's 4 times 1 0 times 2 and 0 times 1.
And so we can go on and this will be this decimal place will be 2 to the 3.
This won't be 2 to the 4 and so on and so on and so on until you get very very large numbers.
Now the very large numbers are a problem because I have no idea how to read this number and say What
on earth it is and it is very hard to write tax on writing 0 1 0 1 0 1.
So we have often erm abbreviation because in hexadecimal we have one digit can be from zero to sixteen
sixteen digits and 6 0 to 15 16 digits and in binary four bits can also have 16 different values.
So we can do a direct conversion into hexadecimal like so where we say hey this value maps to this hexadecimal
number this one match this hexadecimal number and the resultant number funnily enough ends up being
exactly the same if you converted both of these numbers into their decimal counterpart parts they would
be exactly the same number.
So we often use the hexadecimal bits just because there's more characters there.
So it's a much more compact way of writing things if I write 2 3 6 4 b 3 0 E F E 2 4 is much shorter
than writing all of this long binary thing.
OK so that is the aside on counting now.
Why do we go through all of that because that's what the computer's doing when it is using integers
and so on and so forth.
So a byte will start off by defining a by is 8 bits and bytes is actually a type in C sharp if you want
to it use it but don't really recommend it and all it can represent is zero to two hundred and fifty
six fifty five basically.
So there's 256 different values that it can have and that is the result of being two to the eight basically
two to the power of eight.
And you can work that out for yourself.
You've got a pocket calculator.
Otherwise an int is what we typically use and that's actually 32 bits or 4 bytes and that can have much
much larger values that can go typically on a range from what not typically definitely on a range from
minus this to billion all the way to positive 2 billion and that's quite a big range.
So then we also have these you ints which are just the ones that don't have the minus signs which means
they can go to bigger numbers but they only start at zero and so on and so forth.
We've also got floating points which is used for things with a decimal point to give us the ability
to range from really small numbers to very very large numbers but always keeping the same number of
precision in decimal places.
So float is a single precision floating point number.
And what does that mean.
That means that we've only got precision to between six and nine decimal digits.
And so if it was if we were writing out pi then we'd be three point one four and only 6 digits whereas
a double precision floating point number is 64 bit which gives a lot more precision and means that we
can do anything from 15 to 17 digits of precision.
Now this is very useful in scientific computation.
Not so useful in game development which is why we are always using floats and in fact consumer grade
hardware is far faster at doing floating point operations and very slow at doing double precision operations
whereas if you get Quattro graphics cards then you can be doing stuff with double precision much much
quicker but that's typically for different workloads scientific workloads and precision engineering
workloads and not something that we typically use on a game.
So these are some of the primitive types.
How about some more.
If I wanted to make something more complicated.
Well that's when you should just start putting these things together.
So you start saying hey I've got a vector.
It's got three floats in it.
Well then in that case I can store these three floats by serialization into a series of bytes which
are as you said they are eight bits.
So here a float takes up four bytes and you can see the screen float represents these four bytes here
and the red float represents these four bytes and so on.
So you end up with a total of 12 bytes of data.
So clearly this was an overview and it went really quickly we're going to try and understand this now
through the following learning journey through a series of lectures.
First of all we're going to learn how we can write binary into files to figure out you know what we're
doing in the first place.
Then we are going to see how text is rope and binary.
I haven't talked about that.
Well I've talked about its numbers so far and you might be saying hey what about text.
Well we've got some representation some mapping basically from numbers into text that allow us to do
that and we'll learn all about those and then we're going to learn how we can manually serialize manually
take data floating points ints and stuff like that and turn them into binary so that we can stick them
in our files and then we're going to learn how to use the built in C sharp serialization that does all
of this magically behind the scenes for us and we don't have to worry about the binary anymore but at
least we knew what was behind the scenes and we've got a good strong grounding.
So let's dive into the next lecture where we will get started.